---
title: About
published: true
---

We have designed Digital Humanities (DH) Data so that it is easier for you to
explore open data resources. DH Data provides some data visualizations as well
as programming recipes for working with open data.

## How it Works

We use several open source software products including
[Middleman](http://middlemanapp.com/). We use [Nginx](http://nginx.org/) as our
web server. We manage content in the  [site
repository](https://github.com/dhdata/dhdata-site). This includes all recipes
and dataset information pages.

## Contributing

We keep the [cookbook](/cookbook/) recipes and dataset [index](/dataset/) in the
[site repository](https://github.com/dhdata/dhdata-site). Before contributing a
recipe or dataset, you should fork this repository to your GitHub account. Then,
after writing your contribution, create a pull request. See the instructions in
the repository for more information about contributing.

### Prose.io

We've created a custom build of [Prose.io](http://prose.io/). You can add and
edit recipes and other content by going to [the site editor](/editor). The
editor will guide you in forking the repository if you haven't done so.
Otherwise, it will place you in the content directory into which you can add
your recipe or dataset information. The editor will use the appropriate template
when creating a new file.

### Recipe Licensing

We assume that all recipe contributions are under a
[CC-BY](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license. If you must
contribute under a different license, then you should note this and include
links to the original material. We will only accept contributions under a
Creative Commons license.

### Dataset Licensing

We assume that all discussions about a dataset are under a
[CC-BY](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license. We do not apply
this license to the resources pointed to by the page. We assume that all
datasets are under an open license. Please select the appropriate license for
each dataset as part of the page's metadata. If the resources within a dataset
use different licenses, split the dataset into two or more pages grouped by
license.

If you do not see an appropriate license, then select "Other Open License." You
should only do this if the resources are available under an open license. If
they are not available under an open license, then do not list them on the page.
You may include pointers to them in the discussion about the dataset. If you do
reference them, note that they aren't open data.

## Project Team

James Smith, Project Lead

## Support

DH Data is supported in part by the [Maryland Institute for Technology in the
Humanities](http://mith.umd.edu/) through generous research release time.

## License

Unless explicitely stated otherwise, the content on this site is licensed
under a [CC-BY](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) license. All
indexed datasets are licensed under their own terms.
