---
title: Make Data Discoverable
layout: guide_page
---
_This section contains material from the [Open Data Handbook](http://opendatahandbook.org/) available under the [CC-BY](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) license._

Open data is nothing without users. You need to be able to make sure that people can find the source material. This section will cover different approaches.

## Existing tools

There are a number of tools which are live on the web that are specifically designed to make data more discoverable.

One of the most prominent is [the DataHub](http://datahub.io/) and is a catalog and data store for datasets from around the world. The site makes it easy for individuals and organizations to publish material and for data users to find material they need.

DHData.Org is an example of the dozens of specialist catalogs for different sectors and places. Many scientific communities have created a catalog system for their fields, as data are often required for publication. DHData.Org is the catalog system for digital humanities.

## For institutions

In government, the emerged, orthodox practice is for a lead agency to create a catalog for the government's data. A similar institutional pattern would be for a component of the institution such as the library to act as the lead agency and create a catalog for data generated by the institution and the projects of the institution's faculty. When establishing a catalog, try to create some structure which allows many departments and projects to easily keep their own information current.

Resist the urge to build the software to support the catalogue from scratch. There are free and open source software solutions (such as [CKAN](http://ckan.org/)) which have been adopted by many governments already. As such, investing in another platform may not be needed. If you build the catalogue using CKAN, it is easy for DHData.Org to harvest metadata about the catalogued datasets.

There are a few things that most open data catalogues miss. Your program could consider the following:

- Providing an avenue to allow related private and community sectors to add their data. It may be worthwhile to think of the catalogue as the intellectual community's catalogue, rather than the institution's.
- Facilitating improvement of the data by allowing derivatives of datasets to be catalogued. For example, someone may geocode addresses and may wish to share those results with everybody. If you only allow single versions of datasets, these improvements remain hidden.
- Be tolerant of your data appearing elsewhere. That is, content is likely to be duplicated to communities of interest. If you have text transcription data available, then your data may appear in a catalog for literary scholars.
- Ensure that access is equitable. Try to avoid creating a privileged level of access for officials or tenured researchers as this will undermine community participation and engagement.